With the job and step configuration built, I can now create a simple test.
The new Test class will verify the job is available in the
Spring context with the correct name.
I'm displaying the code for the test.
Note this is a JUnit Test that leverages the SpringRunner.
I'm also using the SpringBootTest annotation to use the context
loaded by the main application class of the project.
Also, I'm using the dev Spring profile for the test.
The actual test method will then assert the job configuration I've
autowired is available and has the correct name.
Now that you see what the test looks like,
let's create it in the demo application.
To do this, I'm going to be following Demo 7 found in the DEMOS.
md file in the root project directory.
With the BatchJobConfiguration class defined,
we simply want to start unit testing by verifying that the job
is created correctly by the configuration.
We're going to create a class named
BatchJobConfigurationTest in the test package com.
Pluralsight.
springbatch.
patientbatchloader.
config.
Let's do that now.
I'll enter in the class name as BatchJobConfigurationTest.
Our first step is to add annotations for the class to run tests with the
SpringRunner class and for the class to run as a Spring Boot test using
the main application class of the project.
We'll also want to use the dev Spring profile.
Now that we have our test scaffolding in place,
let's autowire the configured job bean.
And finally, we need to define the test method.
I'm going to test that the job was successfully
Autowired and that it's not null.
I'll also verify that the job has the correct name.
Let's drop that method in now.
With the test defined, let's try to run it.
From the IDE, I'm going to run the new test method.
And, as we see, our test passed.
If you get an error with the test,
it's most likely due to the configuration of the Test class. This concludes the demo for unit testing the job.